Add Running Pods task to docs (#845)
aws/karpenter: website/content/en/pre-docs/tasks/running-pods.md

If your pods have no requirements for how or where to run, you can let Karpenter choose nodes from the full range of available cloud provider resources.
However, by taking advantage of Karpenter's model of layered constraints, you can be sure that the precise type and amount of resources needed are available to your pods.
Reasons for constraining where your pods run could include:

* Needing to run in zones where dependent applications or storage are available
* Requiring certain kinds of processors or other hardware
* Wanting to use techniques like topology spread to help insure high availability

Your Cloud Provider defines the first layer of constraints, including all instance types, architectures, zones, and purchase types available to its cloud.
The cluster operator adds the next layer of constraints by creating one or more provisioners.
The final layer comes from you adding specifications to your Kubernetes pod deployments.
Pod scheduling constraints must fall within a provisioner's constraints or the pods will not deploy.
For example, if the provisioner sets limits that allow only a particular zone to be used, and a pod asks for a different zone, it will not be scheduled.

> Constraints you can request include:

Reviewer: I just realized we're missing Tolerations. We can fast follow.

Author: Okay. I just added that to the latest commit.

* **Node affinity**: Draws a pod to run on nodes with particular attributes (affinity).
* **Topology spread**: Use topology spread to help insure availability of the application.

Karpenter supports standard Kubernetes scheduling constraints.
This allows you to define a single set of rules that apply to both existing and provisioned capacity.
Pod affinity is a key exception to this rule.

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
Karpenter supports specific [Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints](Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints) that are useful for scheduling.
{{% /alert %}}

## Resource requests (`resources`)

Within a Pod spec, you can both make requests and set limits on resources a pod needs, such as CPU and memory.
For example:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: myapp
spec:
  containers:
  - name: app
    image: myimage
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "128Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
      limits:
        memory: "256Mi"
        cpu: "1000m"
```
In this example, the container is requesting 128MiB of memory and .5 CPU.
Its limits are set to 256MiB of memory and 1 CPU.

> Instance tpe selection math only uses `requests`, but `limits` may be configured to enable resource oversubscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instance type selection math only uses `requests`, but `limits` may be configured to enable resource oversubscription.
```

Author: Done.

See [Managing Resources for Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) for details on resource types supported by Kubernetes, [Specify a memory request and a memory limit](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-memory-resource/#specify-a-memory-request-and-a-memory-limit) for examples of memory requests, and [Specifying Values to Control AWS Provisioning](/docs/cloud-providers/aws/aws-spec-fields) for a list of supported resources.

> ## Selecting selection (`nodeSelector` and `nodeAffinity`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Selection (`nodeSelector` and `nodeAffinity`)
```

Author: I don't know what I was thinking. I meant "Selecting nodes". I'll change the section to that.

All examples below assume that the provisioner doesn't have constraints to prevent those zones from being used.
The first constraint says you could use `us-west-2a` or `us-west-2b`, the second constraint makes it so only `us-west-2b` can be used.

```
 affinity:
   nodeAffinity:
     requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions:
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

Changing the second operator to `NotIn` would allow the pod to run in `us-west-2a` only:

```
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

Continuing to add to the example, nodeAffinity lets you match expressions so if one key-value pair doesn't work, you can go on to the next one.

> Here, if `us-west-2a` is not available, the pod can go to the East zone and run on a spot instance (notice the AWS-specific key).

Reviewer: Discussed offline
- east
- match expressions / terms semantic

Author: Done. I made them all us-west-* zones.

```
 affinity:
   nodeAffinity:
     requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "karpenter.sh/capacity-type" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["spot"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-east-2a"]
```

> Karpenter will go through each of the `nodeSelectorTerms` in order and take the first one that works.

Reviewer: This reads more accurately to me than above w/ match expressions

Author: Okay. The are all us-west now and I have updated the descriptions. Let me know if further changes are needed.

However, if Karpenter fails to provision on the first `nodeSelectorTerms`, it will try again using the second one.
If they all fail, Karpenter will fail to provision the pod.
Karpenter will backoff and retry over time.
So if capacity becomes available, it will schedule the pod without user intervention.

## Topology spread (`topologySpreadConstraints`)

By using the Kubernetes `topologySpreadConstraints` you can ask the provisioner to have pods push away from each other to limit the blast radius of an outage.
Think of it as the Kubernetes evolution for pod affinity: it lets you relate pods with respect to nodes while still allowing spread.
For example:

```
spec:
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/node"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones

```
Adding this to your podspec would result in:

* Pods being spread across both zones and hosts (`topologyKey`).

> * Nodes must have a `dev` label of `jjones`.

Reviewer: This is a bit tricky. This `labelSelector` is actually a pod selector (which pods are counted in the spread) not a node selector. 

```
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
```
will include all pods with label `dev=jjones` in topology calculations. It's recommended to use a selector to match all pods in a deployment.

Author: Done.

---
title: "Running pods"
linkTitle: "Running pods"
weight: 10
---

If your pods have no requirements for how or where to run, you can let Karpenter choose nodes from the full range of available cloud provider resources.
However, by taking advantage of Karpenter's model of layered constraints, you can be sure that the precise type and amount of resources needed are available to your pods.
Reasons for constraining where your pods run could include:

> * Saving money by running in ways that are more efficient

Author: Done.

* Needing to run in zones where dependent applications or storage are available
* Requiring certain kinds of processors or other hardware
* Wanting to use techniques like topology spread to help insure high availability

Your Kubernetes cluster operator adds the first layer of constraints by creating one or more provisioners.
The next layer comes from you adding specifications to your Kubernetes pod deployments.
When you request constraints, those constraints must fall within the provisioner constraints or the pods will not deploy.

> For example, if the provisioner sets limits that allow only a particular zone to be used, and a pod asks for a different zone, deployment will fail.

Reviewer 2: I found this section confusing. Potential concepts to clarify:
- explicitly identify which layer is dominant 
- explicitly introduce the "request" implied by "When you request..."
- include an example of the key/value used in the example. perhaps "In other words, the value of podspec.requestedzone must be contained in provisioner.enabledzones" (I don't know the actual keys).

Author: Ellis reworded this section. Thanks for the input.

Constraints you can request include:

* **Resource requests**: Request that certain amount of memory or CPU be available.
* **Disruption budget**: Limit the disruptions that an application can experience.
* **Node selection**: Choose to run on a node that is has a particular label (`nodeSelector`) or name (`nodeName`).
* **Topology spread**: Use topology spread to help insure availability of the application.
* **Node affinity**: Draws a pod to run on nodes with particular attributes (affinity) or that don't have those attributes (antiaffinity).

> * **Persistent volumes**: Insures the availability of selected persistent volumes.

Reviewer 2: I like this section.

> The constraints that Karpenter supports are based mostly on features built into Kubernetes and a few that are specific to the cloud provider.
> In fact, you the exact same constraints can be used on clusters by Cluster Autoscaler or even just by the Kubernetes scheduler to pre-provision capacity.
> Keep in mind, however, that not all Kubernetes constraints are supported or recommended with Karpenter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter supports standard Kubernetes scheduling constraints. This allows you to define a single set of rules that apply to be existing and provisioned capacity. Pod affinity is a key exception to this rule.
```

> This section steps through examples of those that are supported.

Reviewer: I want to be really careful that we don't communicate that karpenter lacks support for critical scheduling constraints.
```suggestion
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> The constraints you identify through affinity and node selection include a subset of Kubernetes [Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints](Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter supports specific [Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/) that are useful for scheduling.
```

Author: Done.

> See [Specifying Values to Control AWS Provisioning](/docs/cloud-providers/aws/aws-spec-fields) for a listing and descriptions of those values.

Reviewer: IIRC we removed all of the AWS specific labels.
```suggestion
```

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer 2: do we need to further call out that if a pod has a toleration, karpenter won't create a node with the corresponding taint, and the pod will fail to schedule, *unless* the toleration is added to the provisioner. 

@ellistarn if the toleration is added to the provisioner, will *all* provisioned nodes have this? or will a node be created only when a pod needs it? am I understanding our new approach to taints correctly?

Author: I added a new section on taints and tolerations to cover this issue.

## Resource requests (`resources`)

Within a Pod spec, you can both make requests and set limits on resources a pod needs, such as CPU and memory.
For example:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: myapp
spec:
  containers:
  - name: app
    image: myimage
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: "128Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
      limits:
        memory: "256Mi"
        cpu: "1000m"
```
In this example, the container is requesting 128MiB of memory and .5 CPU.

> Its limits are set to 256MiB of memory and 1 CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its limits are set to 256MiB of memory and 1 CPU. Instance type selection math only uses `requests`, but `limits` may be configured to enable resource oversubscription.
```

> See [Managing Resources for Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) for details on resource types supported by Kubernetes, [Specify a memory request and a memory limit](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-memory-resource/#specify-a-memory-request-and-a-memory-limit) for examples of memory requests, and [Specifying Values to Control AWS Provisioning](/docs/cloud-providers/aws/aws-spec-fields) for a list of supported resources.

Reviewer 2: Another good section.

Reviewer 2: I realize this may be duplicitous with kubernetes docs. In time, we can learn if this info is helpful to karpenter users.

> ## Disruption budget (`PodDisruptionBudget`)

Reviewer: As per my comment above, not sure what we want to do with this one. Maybe we need a high availability section? You probably know how to structure it best.

Disruption budgets let you specify how much of a Deployment, ReplicationController, ReplicaSet, and StatefulSet must be protected from disruptions when pod eviction requests are made.
This feature can be used to strike a balance between protecting the application's availability while still allowing a cluster operator to manage the cluster.
For example:

```
apiVersion: policy/v1
kind: PodDisruptionBudget
metadata:
  name: myapp-pdb
spec:
  minAvailable: 4
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: myapp
```

> In this example, the `myapp` pod is required to have at least 4 pods available after eviction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the pods matching the label `myapp` will block node termination if evicting the pod would reduce the number of available pods below 4.
```

> Instead of setting a number, you could set a percentage.
> So in this case if there were 10 pods, to get the same `minAvailable` you would set it to 40%.

Reviewer: Not sure we need the deep details of this. I'd just point to the k8s docs.
```suggestion
```

> See [Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/) for details.

Reviewer 2: I would like to have an example here about how disruption budgets impact the karpenter expiry procedure.

> ## Node selection (`nodeSelector` and `nodeName`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Node selection (`nodeSelector` and `nodeAffinity`)
```

With `nodeSelector` you can ask for a node that matches selected key-value pairs.
This can include well-known labels or custom labels you create yourself.

While `nodeSelector` is like node affinity, it doesn't have the same "and/or" matchExpressions that affinity has.
So all key-value pairs must match if you use `nodeSelector`.
Also, `nodeSelector` can do only do inclusions, while `affinity can do inclusions and exclusions (`In` and `NotIn`).

> Here is an example:

Reviewer 2: I'd explicitly call out that these labels actually control substantial properties of the node, such as requesting a spot node.

Author: Not sure exactly how to work that in here. I'll look for a place to put that later.

```
nodeSelector:
  topology.kubernetes.io/zone: us-west-2a

>   node.k8.aws/capacity-type: spot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  karpenter.sh/capacity-type: spot
```

  jones.dev: john
```

> This example features a well-known label (`topology.kubernetes.io/zone`), a label that is specific to the AWS cloud provider (`node.k8.aws/capacity-type`), and a custom label (`jonees.dev`).

Reviewer: Can you do a find replace for this?
```suggestion
This example features a well-known label (`topology.kubernetes.io/zone`), a label that is specific to the AWS cloud provider (`karpenter.sh/capacity-type`), and a custom label (`jonees.dev`).
```

> This example features a well-known label (`topology.kubernetes.io/zone`), a label that is specific to the AWS cloud provider (`node.k8.aws/capacity-type`), and a custom label (`jonees.dev`).

Reviewer: We removed custom label generation. Custom labels are used to select provisioners. If a pod declares a custom label, it will only be scheduled to a provisioner that has defined the same label.
```suggestion
This example features a well-known label (`topology.kubernetes.io/zone`), a label that is well-known to Karpenter (`karpenter.sh/capacity-type`).
```

> Use a command like the following to set a custom label:

Reviewer: We should recommend that users specify this at the provisioner level, not labelling manually.

```
kubectl label nodes <node_name> <label_key>=<label_value>
```

See [nodeSelector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector) in the Kubernetes documentation for details.

> To select a node by name, use the `nodeName` object:
> 
> ```
> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Pod
> metadata:
>   name: myapp
> spec:
>   containers:
>   - name: myapp
>     image: myapp
>   nodeName: my-node
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Topology spread (`topologySpreadConstraints`)

> By using the Kubernetes `topologySpreadConstraints` you can ask the provisioner to have pods push away from each other for high availability reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the Kubernetes `topologySpreadConstraints` you can ask the provisioner to have pods push away from each other to limit the blast radius of an outage.
```

Think of it as the Kubernetes evolution for pod affinity: it lets you relate pods with respect to nodes while still allowing spread.
For example:

```
topologySpreadConstraints:
  - maxSkew: 1
    topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"

>     topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/hostname"

Reviewer: This would need to be two different rules. This is currently invalid YAML (topologyKey is defined twice). IIUC, you also need a selector for a valid rule.

Author: Okay. I did this:
`spec:
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/node"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
`

    whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
```
Adding this to your podspec would result in:

* Pods being spread across both zones and hosts (`topologyKey`)
* No more than one pod difference in the number of pods on each host (`maxSkew`).
For example, if there were three nodes and five pods the pods could be spread 1, 2, 2 or 2, 1, 2 and so on.
If instead the spread were 5, pods could be 5, 0, 0 or 3, 2, 0, or 2, 1, 2 and so on.

> * If the skew cannot be met, schedule the pods anyway (`whenUnsatisfiable`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Karpenter is always able to improve skew by launching new nodes in the right zones. Therefore, `whenUnsatisfiable` does not change provisioning behavior.
```

See [Pod Topology Spread Constraints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-topology-spread-constraints/) for details.

> 

Reviewer 2: A succinct explanation of a complex topic. :)

> ## Node affinity and anti-affinity (`nodeAffinity`)

Reviewer: Node Antiaffinity does not exist. Can we move this section up next to nodeSelectors? NodeAffinity is just a more expressive way to define nodeSelectors. In fact, Karpenter (in memory) translates NodeSelectors into NodeAffinity when doing constraint math.
```suggestion
## Node affinity (`nodeAffinity`)
```

> Examples below illustrate how to use Node affinity (`In`) and anti-affinity (`NotIn`).

Reviewer: This is inaccurate. NotIn is an exclusion, but is not considered "anti-affinity". This is a bit confusing with pod.spec.podaffinity.antiaffinity, since `pod.spec.nodeaffinity.antiaffinity` does not exist.

Author: Okay. I just removed all references to anti-affinity and just referred to In and NotIn.

See [Node affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#node-affinity) for details.
When setting rules, the following Node affinity types define how hard or soft each rule is:

* **requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution**: This is a hard rule that must be met.
* **preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution**: This is a preference, but the pod can run on a node where it is not guaranteed.

> The `IgnoredDuringExecution` part of each tells the pod to keep running, even if conditions change on the node so the rules no longer matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `IgnoredDuringExecution` part of each tells the pod to keep running, even if conditions change on the node so the rules no longer matched. You can think of these concepts as `required` and `preferred`, since Kubernetes never implemented other variants of these rules.
```

All examples below assume that the provisioner doesn't have constraints to prevent those zones from being used.
The first constraint says you could use `us-west-2a` or `us-west-2b`, the second constraint makes it so only `us-west-2b` can be used.

```
 affinity:
   nodeAffinity:
     requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions:
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

Changing the second operator to anti-affinity (`NotIn`) would allow the pod to run in `us-west-2a` only:

```
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

> Continuing to add to the example, nodeAffinity lets you match expressions so if one key-value pair doesn't work, you can go on to the next one.

Reviewer: I love this example.

Here, if `us-west-2a` is not available, the pod can go to the East zone and run on a spot instance (notice the AWS-specific key).

```
 affinity:
   nodeAffinity:
     requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "node.k8.aws/capacity-type" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["spot"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"

>              values: ["us-east-2a"]

Reviewer 2: this is very unintuitive behavior, but I think this example nicely explains it.

```

> Karpenter will go through each of the matchExpressions in order and take the first one that works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter will go through each of the `nodeSelectorTerms` in order and take the first one that works.
```

> However, if Karpenter fails to provision on the first matchExpression, it will delete it and try to use the second one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if Karpenter fails to provision on the first nodeSelectorTerm, it will try again using the second one.
```

Author: Done.

> If they all fail, Karpenter will fail to provision for and deploy the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If they all fail, Karpenter will fail to provision the pod. Karpenter will backoff and retry over time, so if capacity becomes available, it will schedule the pod without user intervention.
```

Author: Done.

> ## Persistent volumes (`VolumeNodeAffinity`)

Reviewer: I'd leave this out, since we didn't manage to get VolumeAwareScheduling implemented https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/10/11/topology-aware-volume-provisioning-in-kubernetes/

Author: Done.

How does a pod request to run on a node that a particular persistent volume present?

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this a remaining action item for you? or a question to engineering?

Author: Dropping this section.

All examples below assume that the provisioner doesn't have constraints to prevent those zones from being used.
The first constraint says you could use `us-west-2a` or `us-west-2b`, the second constraint makes it so only `us-west-2b` can be used.

```
 affinity:
   nodeAffinity:
     requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions:
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

Changing the second operator to `NotIn` would allow the pod to run in `us-west-2a` only:

```
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
```

Continuing to add to the example, `nodeAffinity` lets you define terms so if one term doesn't work it goes to the next one.

> Here, if `us-west-2a` is not available, the pod can go to the East zone and run on a spot instance (notice the AWS-specific key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, if `us-west-2a` is not available, the second term will cause the pod to run on a spot instance in us-west-2d.
```

Author: Done.

       nodeSelectorTerms:
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2a, us-west-2b"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "NotIn"
             values: ["us-west-2b"]
         - matchExpressions: # OR
           - key: "karpenter.sh/capacity-type" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["spot"]
           - key: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone" # AND
             operator: "In"
             values: ["us-west-2d"]
```
In general, Karpenter will go through each of the `nodeSelectorTerms` in order and take the first one that works.
However, if Karpenter fails to provision on the first `nodeSelectorTerms`, it will try again using the second one.
If they all fail, Karpenter will fail to provision the pod.
Karpenter will backoff and retry over time.
So if capacity becomes available, it will schedule the pod without user intervention.

## Taints and tolerations

Taints are the opposite of affinity.
Setting a taint on a node tells the scheduler to not run a pod on it unless the pod has explicitly said it can tolerate that taint.

> This example shows a Provisioner that was set up with a taint for only running pods that require a graphics processing unit, such as the following:

Reviewer: Graphics processing unit is a hilariously outdated name these days, since this is used for all sorts of parallel computing use cases. 
```suggestion
This example shows a Provisioner that was set up with a taint for only running pods that require a GPU, such as the following:
```

Author: Done.

```
apiVersion: karpenter.sh/v1alpha5
kind: Provisioner
metadata:
  name: gpu
spec:
  requirements: 

>   - key: node.kubernetes.io/instance-type (http://node.kubernetes.io/instance-type)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - key: node.kubernetes.io/instance-type
```

Author: Sorry. Same thing. When I copied and pasted, it took the link from the quip doc and put it in the text.

    operator: In

>     values: [   p3.2xlarge, p3.8xlarge, p3.16xlarge ] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    values: 
      - p3.2xlarge
      - p3.8xlarge
      - p3.16xlarge
```

Author: Done.

  taints:

>   - key: nvidia.com/gpu (http://nvidia.com/gpu)

Reviewer: This is invalid yaml, I'd remove it, since it's literally the same link. Also -- the link 404s for me.
```suggestion
  - key: nvidia.com/gpu
```

Author: Don't know how that got in there. I removed it. Oh, I think that might have come from quip when I copied and pasted the text from a quip doc.

Author: Done.

```

For a pod to request to run on a node that has provisioner, it could set a toleration as follows:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mygpupod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: gpuapp
    resources:
      requests:
        nvidia.com/gpu: 1
      limits:
        nvidia.com/gpu: 1
    image: mygpucontainer
  tolerations:
  - key: "nvidia.com/gpu"
    operator: "Exists"
    effect: "NoSchedule"
```
See Taints and Tolerations (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) in the Kubernetes documentation for details.

## Topology spread (`topologySpreadConstraints`)

By using the Kubernetes `topologySpreadConstraints` you can ask the provisioner to have pods push away from each other to limit the blast radius of an outage.
Think of it as the Kubernetes evolution for pod affinity: it lets you relate pods with respect to nodes while still allowing spread.
For example:

```
spec:
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1

>       topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/node"

Reviewer: This key is not supported. The correct kubernetes WKL is
```suggestion
      topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
```

Author: Done.

> spec:
>   topologySpreadConstraints:
>     - maxSkew: 1
>       topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
>       whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
>       labelSelector:
>         matchLabels:
>           dev: jjones
>   topologySpreadConstraints:
>     - maxSkew: 1
>       topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
>       whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
>       labelSelector:
>         matchLabels:
>           dev: jjones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spec:
  topologySpreadConstraints:
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "topology.kubernetes.io/zone"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
    - maxSkew: 1
      topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
      whenUnsatisfiable: ScheduleAnyway
      labelSelector:
        matchLabels:
          dev: jjones
```

Author: Fixed.
